"Training to inference" tutorial (#211)
triton-inference-server/dali_backend: docs/tutorials/training_to_inference.md

# DALI - from training to inference

This tutorial presents the simple way of going from training to inference. We are focusing on a particular scenario: 
how to deploy a model, when it has been trained using DALI as a preprocessing tool. An example that constitutes this 
tutorial is the [EfficientNet](https://github.com/NVIDIA/DALI/tree/main/docs/examples/use_cases/pytorch/efficientnet) 
from DALI repository. This tutorial is split in two parts - [Theory](#Theory) and [Practice](#Practice). Lastly, while we cover only the 
deployment of DALI preprocessing graph, we are using handful of other NVIDIA tools useful for setting up the inference. 
Documentation and links to those tools will be provided, but the specifics of these tools won't be explained - should 
you like to know more details about them, please refer to the documentation.

> ## Assumptions

Reviewer: I feel like this section could be a first subsection of the Practice part. The theory is more general and those assumptions refer to a specific use case

Author: Good point. My reasoning was that these assumptions also refer to the `theory` part. Especially: `@pipeline_def` requirement on the pipeline definition, using Triton for the inference orchestration and putting preprocessing on the server side. Do you feel that the Theory part without emphasising these would be understandable?

Reviewer: Hmm. For me the theory part is understandable, but it works both way, so maybe keep according to your intuition.

Since we are tackling a specific use-case in this tutorial, we will set up several assumptions:
1. We are deploying an EfficientNet model, trained with PyTorch. The checkpoint is saved using `torch.save` and DALI 
has been used as a preprocessing tool.
2. The input data to this model reflects the input data used during training. To be specific - we will infer on encoded 

> JPEG files.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
images.
```

Author: Done

3. The training script contains DALI model, implemented using DALI's `@pipeline_def` decorator. Should you have the 
DALI pipeline implemented using other approach - please convert to `@pipeline_def` first.
4. Triton Inference Server will be used to orchestrate the inference.

> 5. The entire preprocessing part of the inference will happen on the server side, using the GPU.

Reviewer 2: I wonder if we should mention that the CPU processing is also supported. Maybe:
```suggestion
5. The entire preprocessing part of the inference will happen on the server side (using the GPU to speed things up).
```

Author: Done

## Theory

Unfortunately, it is not possible to introduce complete and precise algorithm for setting up the inference 
(if it would, we'd just put together a script for it). However, the following is a highly useful "How-To" guide:
1. Adjust a DALI Pipeline for the inference:

>     1. Make sure that the DALI pipeline you’ll be working on is the pipeline that contains the operations for the inference. Usually the **training** preprocessing and **inference** preprocessing differs - the former one contains some random operations that are used to augment the dataset. Most often the inference pipeline will match the **validation** pipeline (and not the training one).

Reviewer 2: Can you link each of the theory part to the relevant `Practice` parts?

Author: Done

    1. Set up your Deep Learning model. Description of this step is outside of the scope of this tutorial.
    1. Create a directory for the DALI model.
    1. Insert the DALI pipeline definition (prepared in the **Step 1**) into the `dali.py` file in the version directory.
    1. Create a [configuration file](https://docs.nvidia.com/deeplearning/triton-inference-server/user-guide/docs/user_guide/model_configuration.html) (unnecessary, if you are using Model Autoconfiguration for DALI Backend). Make sure that the names of the inputs in the model configuration match the names of the input operators assigned in **Step 1**.
    1. Combine the Deep Learning and DALI models using [model ensemble](https://docs.nvidia.com/deeplearning/triton-inference-server/user-guide/docs/user_guide/architecture.html#ensemble-models) or [BLS script](https://docs.nvidia.com/deeplearning/triton-inference-server/user-guide/docs/index.html?highlight=business%20logic%20scripting).
1. Run the Triton server and send some requests to it.

Enough with the theory. Let's go to practice.

## Practice

> ### ➔ 1: Adjusting DALI Pipeline

Reviewer 3: An idea that came to my mind while reading this section: maybe it would be useful and not that hard to do to create a sort of linter tool/script to analyze DALI pipeline and mark parts that maybe should be adjusted for the inference? Like it goes through the graph, sees some random op and prints a warning: "You have a RandomCrop defined at line 54" and so on. This could codify these best practices in a tool.

But as I said, just an idea, not really a comment to this PR :)

As mentioned earlier, the validation pipeline usually reflects the inference preprocessing better. Here's one used in 
our EfficientNet example:

```python
@pipeline_def
def validation_pipe(data_dir, interpolation, image_size, image_crop, output_layout, rank=0,
                    world_size=1):
    jpegs, label = fn.readers.file(name="Reader", file_root=data_dir, shard_id=rank,
                                   num_shards=world_size, random_shuffle=False, pad_last_batch=True)

    images = fn.decoders.image(jpegs, device="mixed", output_type=types.RGB)

    images = fn.resize(images, resize_shorter=image_size, interp_type=interpolation,
                       antialias=False)

    output = fn.crop_mirror_normalize(images, dtype=types.FLOAT, output_layout=output_layout,
                                      crop=(image_crop, image_crop),
                                      mean=[0.485 * 255, 0.456 * 255, 0.406 * 255],
                                      std=[0.229 * 255, 0.224 * 255, 0.225 * 255])
    return output, label
```

> We're adjusting it by swapping the Reader with ExternalSource and adding a `name` parameter to it. Since in our example 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We're adjusting it by swapping the reader with external_source and adding a `name` parameter to it. Since in our example 
```

just a suggestion. PascalCase names seem kinda outdated

Reviewer: or even just `external source`

Author: Done

we will explicitly create a `config.pbtxt` file for DALI model, we're not adding `ndim` and `dtype` arguments to 
`fn.external_source`. We are, however, using [Autoserialization](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/dali_backend#autoserialization), 
hence the `@autoserialize` decorator on top. Lastly, we are providing default values for arguments of the `inference_pipe`

> function.

Reviewer 2: I would also mention that the labels are no longer a part of the pipeline output.

Author: Done

```
name: "preprocessing"
backend: "dali"
max_batch_size: 32
input [
  {
    name: "DALI_INPUT"
    data_type: TYPE_UINT8
    dims: [ -1 ]
  }
]

output [
  {
    name: "DALI_OUTPUT"
    data_type: TYPE_FP32
    dims: [ 3, 224, 224 ]
  }
]
```

For the details about the model configuration files please refer to [Triton documentation](https://docs.nvidia.com/deeplearning/triton-inference-server/user-guide/docs/user_guide/model_configuration.html).

### ➔ 3 : Run Triton server and send requests

Please refer to [Triton documentation](https://docs.nvidia.com/deeplearning/triton-inference-server/user-guide/docs/index.html)
for any details about running the server and leveraging Triton Client module to send requests to the server.

### Triton Client hints

As mentioned earlier, you can find the examples of Triton client implementation inside [DALI Backend repository](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/dali_backend/tree/main/qa). 
The purpose of this tutorial is not to fully explain how to create a Triton client module. However, the following are 
a couple of suggestions for creating a Triton client specifically for DALI model.

#### Loading data as binary buffer

> NVIDIA hardware offers image and video decoding acceleration using [Hardware JPEG Decoder](https://developer.nvidia.com/blog/leveraging-hardware-jpeg-decoder-and-nvjpeg-on-a100/) and [NVDEC cores](https://developer.nvidia.com/video-codec-sdk). 

Reviewer 2: I would make this broader. We have also nvJPEG2k and nvTIFF, which uses just SMs. So how about:
```suggestion
NVIDIA offers GPU accelerated image and video decoding using various software (i.e. [nvJPEG2k](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/nvjpeg2000/userguide.html) or [nvTIFF](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/nvtiff/)) and hardware (like [JPEG](https://developer.nvidia.com/blog/leveraging-hardware-jpeg-decoder-and-nvjpeg-on-a100/) and [NVDEC](https://developer.nvidia.com/video-codec-sdk)) solutions.```

Since DALI provides easy-access Python interface for both, you'd typically like to perform data decoding on the server side. 
Therefore, the Triton client will typically send encoded data to the server. We suggest using `np.fromfile` or similar 
approach to read the binary data from disk (this one prooved to be the fastest):

```python
def load_image(image_path):
    return np.fromfile(image_path, dtype=np.uint8)
```

#### Batching data in the request

With Triton and DALI Backend you can leverage batching in two ways. Firstly, you can turn on [Dynamic Batching](https://docs.nvidia.com/deeplearning/triton-inference-server/user-guide/docs/user_guide/model_configuration.html#dynamic-batcher). 

> With this feature, you send the samples one-by-one to the server and the server automatically puts together a batch of data for you. 

Reviewer 2: `one-by-one` or any lenght?

Author: In theory any length, but the most common usage is that the samples are sent one by one. Removed the `one-by-one`.
